# Introduction
Tool to statically (AOT) translate binaries to LLVM IR.

A tool to raise (or lift) compiled binaries to LLVM IR.

The implementation uses disassembly functionality implemented in
llvm-objdump.

# Getting Started (Linux/Mac)
## Building as part of LLVM tree

1.  `mkdir $PWD/src && mkdir -p $PWD/build/llvm && cd src`
2.  `git clone https://github.com/Microsoft/llvm.git && pushd llvm && git checkout mctoll && popd`
3.  `pushd llvm/tools && git clone https://github.com/Microsoft/llvm.git && git checkout master && popd`
4.  `cd ../build/llvm`
5.  Run cmake command that you usually use to build llvm
6.  Run `make llvm-mctoll` or `ninja llvm-mctoll`
7. Run `make check-mctoll` or `ninja check-mctoll` (Optional)

# Usage instructions:

`llvm-mctoll -d <binary>`

or

To print debug output:

`llvm-mctoll -d -print-after-all <binary>`

# Current Status

The tool is currently able to raise Linux x86_64 shared libraries and executables with `printf` calls.

TODO :
1. Cleanup llvm-objdump related functionality that is not relevant to this tool.
1. Support to raise only a subset of x86-64 instructions currently exists. Add missing support.
1. Support to discover arguments passed on stack.
...

# Build and Test

Run the tests by invoking 'make check-mctoll' or 'ninja check-mctoll'

# Contribute

There is a significant scope to support raising of a variety of
binaries generated by different compilers and in different formats
(that are supported by the LLVM inftrastructure.)

Any interest in contributing to the project is wlecome. Please submit
pull-requests with any suggested enhancements to the code as well as
to documentation.
